# BioBD_SGBDBio
A repository for a BioBD_SGBD (DBMS) to represent Biological Sequences and an interface for access.

This README will briefly instruct on how to install and use the following code.

If you want to run locally, here's what to do:

- Download pgAdmin (https://www.pgadmin.org/download/) which is the GUI for PostgreSQL, the program that runs the database.
- Follow-up the installation instructions and choose a name and password for the connection to the server that will run locally, using port 5432.
- Run pgAdmin, that will load a page on the internet browser, then connect to the server and create the database right-clicking on "Databases" and choosing "Create > Database...", choosing its name and owner (which usually is "postgres").
- After that, open "Databases", right-click on the recently-created database and choose "Query Tool...".
- Copy, paste and run the content inside the files "ddl.sql", "insert.sql" and "functions.sql", one by one.
- Your database is configured. If you want, you can run "test.sql" just like the other files to test it and check if the results are correct.


# About the Application

This is a Single Page Application programmed in Python using the Django Framework, adapted due to the database previous existance. In the site there are three links on the upper right corner: Brief Summary, Query and Existing Database Functions, which will be detailed below.

- Brief Summary is a short and precise explanation about the application purpose.

- Query is where the queries on the database will be executed, hence the fields "Select Function", "Consult Parameters" 1 to 3 and "Result" are displayed. Each function of the database has its own number of parameters as described on the Existing Database Functions section, therefore depending on which function is selected the "Consult Parameters" fields will be necessary or not accordingly to the function parameter needs.

- Existing Database Functions is a table which contains a brief explanation about the functions present within the database, detailing their names, inputs, outputs and a short explanation on how they work. Mostly this table states a quick clarification on the usage of the functions.

This web application focuses on displaying specific information generated by the functions using the data present on the database. 

# Using Your Own Dataset

If you want to upload your own dataset on the database, you will need to manually insert to the correct tables using the PostgreSQL interface, since the application does not have at the moment a specific way using the interface. However it is on the plans of future development to create a way to insert data and/or datasets using the web interface.

# System Minimum Requirements

CPU: Intel Core i3 / AMD Ryzen 3
Memory: 2Gb
Disk Space: varies depending on data set // minimum 1Gb
